microprofile-json-basics.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2019
lastupdated: "2019-02-05"

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:tip: .tip}
{:note: .note}
{:important: .important}

# JSON Handling with JSON-P and JSON-B
{: #mp-json}

[JSON-B (JSON-Binding, JSR 367)](http://json-b.net/) and [JSON-P (JSON-Parsing, JSR 374)](https://javaee.github.io/jsonp/) are two Java API specifications that define how Java classes and JSON objects can interact. JSON-P provides a Java API for processing JSON-formatted data. JSON-B provides a binding layer on top of JSON-P, making it easier to convert objects to and from JSON. In most cases, JSON-B should be used in preference to the lower-level JSON-P.

## JSON-B

With **JSON-B** , conversion to and from JSON is achieved using a Plain Old Java Object (POJO) with a getter/setter method for each field. For example:

```java
public class Person {
   private String fName;
   private Date fBirthDate;
   private String fGender;
   private Address fAddress;

   public Person() {}
   public Person(String name, Date birthDate, String gender, Address address) { fName = name; fBirthDate = birthDate; fGender = gender; fAddress = address; }

   public String getName() { return fName; }
   public void setName(String name) { fName = name; }
   public Date getBirthDate() { return fBirthDate; }
   public void setBirthDate(Date birthDate) { fBirthDate = birthDate; }
   public Address getAddress() { return fAddress; }
   public void setAddress(Address address) { fAddress = address; }
}

public class Address {
   private String fOffice;
   private String fStreet;
   private String fCity;
   private String fState;
   private int fZip;

   public Address() {}
   public Address(String office, String street, String city, int zip) { fOffice = office; fStreet = street; fCity = city; fState = state; fZip = zip) }

   public String getOffice() { return fOffice; }
   public void setOffice(String office) { fOffice = office; }
   public String getStreet() { return fStreet; }
   public void setStreet(String street) { fStreet = street; }
   public String getCity() { return fCity; }
   public void setCity(String city) { fCity = city; }
   public String getState() { return fState; }
   public void setState(String state) { fState = state; }
   public int getZip() { return fZip; }
   public void setZip(int zip) { fZip = zip; }
}
```
{: codeblock}

To use JSON-B with Liberty, you need the `jsonb-1.0` feature enabled in your `server.xml`. You can also use `microProfile-2.0`, which gives you all of the MP features, including JSON-B and JSON-P.

In your JAX-RS class, you'd use the following to create a Person object with the fields shown earlier:

```java
Address myAddress = new Address("501-B101", "4205 S Miami Blvd", "Durham", "NC", 27703);
Person me = new Person("John Alcorn", new Date("1971-09-14"), "Male", myAddress);
```
{: codeblock}

JSON-B will automatically convert JSON into a defined object. For example, if you use the MicroProfile REST client to make an outbound call to a service with a POJO as a return type, JSON-B will automatically convert the JSON response into a POJO object, which you can then use to retrieve attributes:

```java
// mpRestClient: outbound client request returning a POJO
// JSON-B converts the JSON response into a Person object
Person person = myClient.get("John Alcorn");
Date birthDate = person.getBirthDate();
Address address = person.getAddress();
String city = address.getCity();
```
{: codeblock}

JSON-B also provides a parser that will take a String representation of a JSON object and will give you back the corresponding JSON-B object. To use this, you need to add the following import statements to your microservice class:

```java
import javax.json.bind.Jsonb;
import javax.json.bind.JsonbBuilder;
```
{: codeblock}

Use something like the following to parse a JSON string stored in a `myJSON` variable:

```java
Jsonb jsonb = JsonbBuilder.create();
Person person = jsonb.fromJson(myJSON, Person.class);
```
{: codeblock}

Everything is strongly typed with JSON-B. If you get a field name wrong, for example, you would see a compile failure since there wouldn't be such a method. Creating POJOs can be tedious, but most IDEs support generating getters and setters once the fields are defined, which helps.

Avoid over-exposure of internal details. Several annotations can help you control how your objects are converted to and from JSON: `@JsonbTransient` identifies fields that should not be converted at all, and `@JsonbNillable` specifies how null values should be handled. `@JsonbAdapter` implementations can further customize how data is serialised and deserialized for additional isolation between the wire format and the internal implementation.
{: tip}

## JSON-P

Before JSON-B existed (which arrived as part of Java EE 8), **JSON-P** (JSON-Parsing) was a standardized way to interact with JSON within Java code. Prior to this, there were various proprietary JSON parsing libraries, such as IBM's JSON4J. JSON-P can be used to parse JSON you've received from a REST call, or to construct JSON you can return from your own JAX-RS methods.

Using JSON-P requires the `jsonp-1.0` feature be enabled in your `server.xml` (or the `microProfile-2.0` convenience feature, which enables all of the MP technologies).

Here are the import statements for working with JSON objects and arrays in JSON-P:

```java
import javax.json.Json;
import javax.json.JsonArray;
import javax.json.JsonArrayBuilder;
import javax.json.JsonObject;
import javax.json.JsonObjectBuilder;
```
{: codeblock}

To work with JSON received from a REST API call, you call the `get` method on a `JsonObject`, passing in the key for the field you want. To continue our `Person` example above, if you received a `JsonObject` that you called `person`, you would call `person.get("name")` to find out the value of the person's name, or `person.get("birthDate")` to get their birth date. JSON-P is a lot like dealing with a `Map` in Java, as a comparison.

Now, say you want to build such a JSON object in your Java code. JSON-P uses a builder pattern: use a `JsonObjectBuilder` to add each value, then call `build()` to produce the `JsonObject`, like such:

```java
JsonObjectBuilder addressBuilder = Json.createObjectBuilder();

addressBuilder.add("office", "501-B101");
addressBuilder.add("street", "4205 S Miami Blvd");
addressBuilder.add("city", "Durham");
addressBuilder.add("state", "NC");
addressBuilder.add("zip", "27703");

JsonObjectBuilder personBuilder = Json.createObjectBuilder();

personBuilder.add("name", "John Alcorn");
personBuilder.add("birthDate", "1971-09-14");
personBuilder.add("gender", gender);
personBuilder.add("address", addressBuilder);

JsonObject person = personBuilder.build();
```
{: codeblock}

Note that a `JsonObject` in JSON-P is immutable, unlike with JSON-B. If you want to update fields, you have to create a new `JsonObject`, duplicate the fields, and then make changes. Making your own POJOs with copy constructors can help here.

JSON-B and JSON-P are both supported by the Microprofile Rest Client for proper serialization and deserialization, but type-safety and compile-time feedback make JSON-B the preferred choice.

Commit message:

TopicID link updates, subcollection value added

microprofile-json-basics.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2019
lastupdated: "2019-03-15"

subcollection: java

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:tip: .tip}
{:note: .note}
{:important: .important}

# JSON Handling with JSON-P and JSON-B
{: #mp-json}

[JSON-B (JSON-Binding, JSR 367)](http://json-b.net/){: new_window} ![External link icon](../icons/launch-glyph.svg "External link icon") and [JSON-P (JSON-Parsing, JSR 374)](https://javaee.github.io/jsonp/){: new_window} ![External link icon](../icons/launch-glyph.svg "External link icon") are two Java API specifications that define how Java classes and JSON objects can interact. JSON-P provides a Java API for processing JSON-formatted data. JSON-B provides a binding layer on top of JSON-P, making it easier to convert objects to and from JSON. In most cases, JSON-B should be used in preference to the lower-level JSON-P.

## JSON-B
{: #java-json-b}

With **JSON-B** , conversion to and from JSON is achieved using a Plain Old Java Object (POJO) with a getter/setter method for each field. For example:

```java
public class Person {
   private String fName;
   private Date fBirthDate;
   private String fGender;
   private Address fAddress;

   public Person() {}
   public Person(String name, Date birthDate, String gender, Address address) { fName = name; fBirthDate = birthDate; fGender = gender; fAddress = address; }

   public String getName() { return fName; }
   public void setName(String name) { fName = name; }
   public Date getBirthDate() { return fBirthDate; }
   public void setBirthDate(Date birthDate) { fBirthDate = birthDate; }
   public Address getAddress() { return fAddress; }
   public void setAddress(Address address) { fAddress = address; }
}

public class Address {
   private String fOffice;
   private String fStreet;
   private String fCity;
   private String fState;
   private int fZip;

   public Address() {}
   public Address(String office, String street, String city, int zip) { fOffice = office; fStreet = street; fCity = city; fState = state; fZip = zip) }

   public String getOffice() { return fOffice; }
   public void setOffice(String office) { fOffice = office; }
   public String getStreet() { return fStreet; }
   public void setStreet(String street) { fStreet = street; }
   public String getCity() { return fCity; }
   public void setCity(String city) { fCity = city; }
   public String getState() { return fState; }
   public void setState(String state) { fState = state; }
   public int getZip() { return fZip; }
   public void setZip(int zip) { fZip = zip; }
}
```
{: codeblock}

To use JSON-B with Liberty, you need the `jsonb-1.0` feature enabled in your `server.xml`. You can also use `microProfile-2.0`, which gives you all of the MP features, including JSON-B and JSON-P.

In your JAX-RS class, you'd use the following to create a Person object with the fields shown earlier:

```java
Address myAddress = new Address("501-B101", "4205 S Miami Blvd", "Durham", "NC", 27703);
Person me = new Person("John Alcorn", new Date("1971-09-14"), "Male", myAddress);
```
{: codeblock}

JSON-B will automatically convert JSON into a defined object. For example, if you use the MicroProfile REST client to make an outbound call to a service with a POJO as a return type, JSON-B will automatically convert the JSON response into a POJO object, which you can then use to retrieve attributes:

```java
// mpRestClient: outbound client request returning a POJO
// JSON-B converts the JSON response into a Person object
Person person = myClient.get("John Alcorn");
Date birthDate = person.getBirthDate();
Address address = person.getAddress();
String city = address.getCity();
```
{: codeblock}

JSON-B also provides a parser that will take a String representation of a JSON object and will give you back the corresponding JSON-B object. To use this, you need to add the following import statements to your microservice class:

```java
import javax.json.bind.Jsonb;
import javax.json.bind.JsonbBuilder;
```
{: codeblock}

Use something like the following to parse a JSON string stored in a `myJSON` variable:

```java
Jsonb jsonb = JsonbBuilder.create();
Person person = jsonb.fromJson(myJSON, Person.class);
```
{: codeblock}

Everything is strongly typed with JSON-B. If you get a field name wrong, for example, you would see a compile failure since there wouldn't be such a method. Creating POJOs can be tedious, but most IDEs support generating getters and setters once the fields are defined, which helps.

Avoid over-exposure of internal details. Several annotations can help you control how your objects are converted to and from JSON: `@JsonbTransient` identifies fields that should not be converted at all, and `@JsonbNillable` specifies how null values should be handled. `@JsonbAdapter` implementations can further customize how data is serialised and deserialized for additional isolation between the wire format and the internal implementation.
{: tip}

## JSON-P
{: #java-json-p}

Before JSON-B existed (which arrived as part of Java EE 8), **JSON-P** (JSON-Parsing) was a standardized way to interact with JSON within Java code. Prior to this, there were various proprietary JSON parsing libraries, such as IBM's JSON4J. JSON-P can be used to parse JSON you've received from a REST call, or to construct JSON you can return from your own JAX-RS methods.

Using JSON-P requires the `jsonp-1.0` feature be enabled in your `server.xml` (or the `microProfile-2.0` convenience feature, which enables all of the MP technologies).

Here are the import statements for working with JSON objects and arrays in JSON-P:

```java
import javax.json.Json;
import javax.json.JsonArray;
import javax.json.JsonArrayBuilder;
import javax.json.JsonObject;
import javax.json.JsonObjectBuilder;
```
{: codeblock}

To work with JSON received from a REST API call, you call the `get` method on a `JsonObject`, passing in the key for the field you want. To continue our `Person` example above, if you received a `JsonObject` that you called `person`, you would call `person.get("name")` to find out the value of the person's name, or `person.get("birthDate")` to get their birth date. JSON-P is a lot like dealing with a `Map` in Java, as a comparison.

Now, say you want to build such a JSON object in your Java code. JSON-P uses a builder pattern: use a `JsonObjectBuilder` to add each value, then call `build()` to produce the `JsonObject`, like such:

```java
JsonObjectBuilder addressBuilder = Json.createObjectBuilder();

addressBuilder.add("office", "501-B101");
addressBuilder.add("street", "4205 S Miami Blvd");
addressBuilder.add("city", "Durham");
addressBuilder.add("state", "NC");
addressBuilder.add("zip", "27703");

JsonObjectBuilder personBuilder = Json.createObjectBuilder();

personBuilder.add("name", "John Alcorn");
personBuilder.add("birthDate", "1971-09-14");
personBuilder.add("gender", gender);
personBuilder.add("address", addressBuilder);

JsonObject person = personBuilder.build();
```
{: codeblock}

Note that a `JsonObject` in JSON-P is immutable, unlike with JSON-B. If you want to update fields, you have to create a new `JsonObject`, duplicate the fields, and then make changes. Making your own POJOs with copy constructors can help here.

JSON-B and JSON-P are both supported by the Microprofile Rest Client for proper serialization and deserialization, but type-safety and compile-time feedback make JSON-B the preferred choice.
