microprofile-healthcheck.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2019
lastupdated: "2019-02-05"

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:tip: .tip}
{:note: .note}
{:important: .important}

# Health checks with JAX-RS
{: #jaxrs-healthcheck}

As discussed in the prior section, Kubernetes provides multiple methods for integrating health probes, including execution of a command, as well as network checking through TCP or HTTP endpoints. Although it is possible to implement any of these probes in the Java language, a JAX-RS implementation of HTTP probes and MicroProfile Health will be discussed in detail here.

## Defining a readiness JAX-RS endpoint
{: #mp-readiness}

A mimimal readiness endpoint looks something like the following:

```java
@Path("ready")
public class ReadinessEndpoint {
  @GET
  @Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
  public Response testReadiness() {
    if ( ! ready ) {
      return Response.status(503).entity("{\"status\":\"DOWN\"}").build();
    }
    return Response.ok("{\"status\":\"UP\"}").build();
  }
}
```
{: codeblock}

An endpoint like this in an application deployed in WebSphere Liberty achieves a certain level of readiness behavior without additional effort. Liberty will fail requests to the health endpoint with an appropriate 503 response until the application has started. This basic implementation should be extended to include required capabilities. For example, consider evaluating `@ApplicationScoped` CDI resources to ensure that dependency injection processing has completed. Once the probe has been implemented, it can be enabled by configuring the HTTP probe type as noted in the prior section.

Always remember the role and purpose of fault tolerance: microservices are expected to handle failure and disruption in communications with downstream services. Only include checks for capabilities that have no feasible fallback inside a readiness check.

## Defining a liveness JAX-RS endpoint
{: #jaxrs-liveness}

A liveness probe should be deliberate about what it checks, as a failure will result in immediate termination of the process. A simple liveness endpoint can look something like this:

```java
@Path("liveness")
public class LivenessEndpoint {
    @GET
    @Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
    public Response testLiveness() {
      return Response.ok("{\"status\":\"UP\"}").build();
    }
}
```
{: codeblock}

The liveness probe implementation can be extended to consult process local conditions which indicate an unrecoverable process state. However, the challenge with such checks often lies in the fact that if the such processing is able to be performed, the server is likely sufficiently healthy to perform other requests. For this reason, a "keep it simple" mantra should be readily applied to the liveness check implementation. Once the liveness sources have been coded to enable the probe endpoint, the http liveness endpoint can be enabled in the container orchestration sources as explained in the last chapter.

To avoid restart cycles, the initialDelaySeconds attribute for the liveness check should be longer than the longest expected server start time. For a Java application server that commonly takes 30 seconds to start, choose a larger value, such as 60 seconds.

## Using the MicroProfile Health API
{: #mp-health-api}

The [MicroProfile Health API](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSEQTP_liberty/com.ibm.websphere.wlp.doc/ae/twlp_microprofile_healthcheck.html) (mpHealth ) defines a framework to simplify the implementation of health checks. Version 1.0 of the mpHealth API only defines a single endpoint. The next version will provide two, one for liveness, and one for readiness.

To use the MicroProfile Health API with Liberty, add the `mpHealth` feature to `server.xml`:

```xml
<featureManager>
   <feature>mpHealth-1.0</feature>
</featureManager>
```
{: codeblock}

You can then check the status of the application with a browser by accessing the `/health` endpoint. The code returns a payload `{"outcome": "UP"}` when all is well. Below shows how to use MicroProfile Health APIs to indicate whether the pod is health or ready. The `call` method allows developers to provide check algorithm to indicate the health status of a pod. Something like nearlly running out of memory is a good indicator for the healthiness of a pod. Checking for downstream database connection might be a good check for the readiness of the pod. If there is no specific check, you can use the following to indicate whether a pod is alive or ready.

```java
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.Health;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheck;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheckResponse;

import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

@Health
@ApplicationScoped
public class HealthResource implements HealthCheck {

    @Override
    public HealthCheckResponse call() {
        return HealthCheckResponse.named("service-a").withData("service-a", "ok").up().build();
    }
}
```
{: codeblock}

Then, you need to specify the `livenessProbe` and `readinessProbe` for Kubernetes, as shown below.
```yaml
livenessProbe:
  exec:
    command: ["sh", "-c", "curl -s http://localhost:9080/health| grep -q service-a"]
  initialDelaySeconds: 60
readinessProbe:
  exec:
    command: ["sh", "-c", "curl -s http://localhost:9080/health | grep -q service-a"]
  initialDelaySeconds: 40


```
{: codeblock}
As mentioned earlier, you can use different logics to indicate readiness and liveness. You can use MicroProfile Health to indicate readiness check and then create a JAX-RS endpoint for readiness check or vice versa. The next version of MicroProfile Health will provide two end points, one for liveness and the other for readiness.

OpenLiberty has a hands-on guide that provides an example of how to add custom checks to the MicroProfile Health endpoint: https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-health.html

You can override the default behavior of the MicroProfile health endpoint as described in [Performing MicroProfile health checks](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSEQTP_liberty/com.ibm.websphere.wlp.doc/ae/twlp_microprofile_healthcheck.html).

Commit message:

TopicID link updates, subcollection value added

microprofile-healthcheck.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2019
lastupdated: "2019-03-15"

subcollection: java

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}
{:tip: .tip}
{:note: .note}
{:important: .important}

# Health checks with JAX-RS
{: #jaxrs-healthcheck}

As discussed in the prior section, Kubernetes provides multiple methods for integrating health probes, including execution of a command, as well as network checking through TCP or HTTP endpoints. Although it is possible to implement any of these probes in the Java language, a JAX-RS implementation of HTTP probes and MicroProfile Health will be discussed in detail here.

## Defining a readiness JAX-RS endpoint
{: #mp-readiness}

A mimimal readiness endpoint looks something like the following:

```java
@Path("ready")
public class ReadinessEndpoint {
  @GET
  @Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
  public Response testReadiness() {
    if ( ! ready ) {
      return Response.status(503).entity("{\"status\":\"DOWN\"}").build();
    }
    return Response.ok("{\"status\":\"UP\"}").build();
  }
}
```
{: codeblock}

An endpoint like this in an application deployed in WebSphere Liberty achieves a certain level of readiness behavior without additional effort. Liberty will fail requests to the health endpoint with an appropriate 503 response until the application has started. This basic implementation should be extended to include required capabilities. For example, consider evaluating `@ApplicationScoped` CDI resources to ensure that dependency injection processing has completed. Once the probe has been implemented, it can be enabled by configuring the HTTP probe type as noted in the prior section.

Always remember the role and purpose of fault tolerance: microservices are expected to handle failure and disruption in communications with downstream services. Only include checks for capabilities that have no feasible fallback inside a readiness check.

## Defining a liveness JAX-RS endpoint
{: #jaxrs-liveness}

A liveness probe should be deliberate about what it checks, as a failure will result in immediate termination of the process. A simple liveness endpoint can look something like this:

```java
@Path("liveness")
public class LivenessEndpoint {
    @GET
    @Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
    public Response testLiveness() {
      return Response.ok("{\"status\":\"UP\"}").build();
    }
}
```
{: codeblock}

The liveness probe implementation can be extended to consult process local conditions which indicate an unrecoverable process state. However, the challenge with such checks often lies in the fact that if the such processing is able to be performed, the server is likely sufficiently healthy to perform other requests. For this reason, a "keep it simple" mantra should be readily applied to the liveness check implementation. Once the liveness sources have been coded to enable the probe endpoint, the http liveness endpoint can be enabled in the container orchestration sources as explained in the last chapter.

To avoid restart cycles, the initialDelaySeconds attribute for the liveness check should be longer than the longest expected server start time. For a Java application server that commonly takes 30 seconds to start, choose a larger value, such as 60 seconds.

## Using the MicroProfile Health API
{: #mp-health-api}

The [MicroProfile Health API](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSEQTP_liberty/com.ibm.websphere.wlp.doc/ae/twlp_microprofile_healthcheck.html){: new_window} ![External link icon](../icons/launch-glyph.svg "External link icon") (mpHealth) defines a framework to simplify the implementation of health checks. Version 1.0 of the mpHealth API only defines a single endpoint. The next version will provide two, one for liveness, and one for readiness.

To use the MicroProfile Health API with Liberty, add the `mpHealth` feature to `server.xml`:

```xml
<featureManager>
   <feature>mpHealth-1.0</feature>
</featureManager>
```
{: codeblock}

You can then check the status of the application with a browser by accessing the `/health` endpoint. The code returns a payload `{"outcome": "UP"}` when all is well. Below shows how to use MicroProfile Health APIs to indicate whether the pod is health or ready. The `call` method allows developers to provide check algorithm to indicate the health status of a pod. Something like nearlly running out of memory is a good indicator for the healthiness of a pod. Checking for downstream database connection might be a good check for the readiness of the pod. If there is no specific check, you can use the following to indicate whether a pod is alive or ready.

```java
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.Health;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheck;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheckResponse;

import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

@Health
@ApplicationScoped
public class HealthResource implements HealthCheck {

    @Override
    public HealthCheckResponse call() {
        return HealthCheckResponse.named("service-a").withData("service-a", "ok").up().build();
    }
}
```
{: codeblock}

Then, you need to specify the `livenessProbe` and `readinessProbe` for Kubernetes, as shown below.
```yaml
livenessProbe:
  exec:
    command: ["sh", "-c", "curl -s http://localhost:9080/health| grep -q service-a"]
  initialDelaySeconds: 60
readinessProbe:
  exec:
    command: ["sh", "-c", "curl -s http://localhost:9080/health | grep -q service-a"]
  initialDelaySeconds: 40


```
{: codeblock}

As mentioned earlier, you can use different logics to indicate readiness and liveness. You can use MicroProfile Health to indicate readiness check and then create a JAX-RS endpoint for readiness check or vice versa. The next version of MicroProfile Health will provide two end points, one for liveness and the other for readiness.

OpenLiberty has a hands-on guide that provides an example of how to add custom checks to the MicroProfile Health endpoint: https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-health.html

You can override the default behavior of the MicroProfile health endpoint as described in [Performing MicroProfile health checks](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSEQTP_liberty/com.ibm.websphere.wlp.doc/ae/twlp_microprofile_healthcheck.html){: new_window} ![External link icon](../icons/launch-glyph.svg "External link icon").
